- [Instructor] There's a little bit more
that you need to understand
about how the tasks in a Gradle build work.
I'll use our new task info plugin to help explain it.
The plug-in contains the TI tree task.
When we execute it, we provide it another task like build.
Then it evaluates the relationships
between all the tasks that will be executed by Gradle
when we perform the build task.
Here, let me show you how it works.
So here's the output from the plugin.
This is known as the task graph.
At the base of the task graph,
we have the build task that we asked the plugin to analyze.
The build task is a standard life cycle task within Gradle.
Standard life cycle tasks,
like build, assemble and check,
don't really do any work within our builds.
Instead, they rely upon tasks provided by plugins
to do the actual work inside of the build.
That doesn't mean they're not important
because we can still link the plugin task to them
to help determine when they will be executed in the build.
This process of linking the task together
and determining the sequence they'll be run in
is performed by Gradle
in the early stages of the build process
when it's creating the task graph.
This all occurs behind the scenes,
and it's really hard to see just by adding a plugin
to our build script.
So let's create our own task to see how it works.
To do that, we're going to register a task
on the task property.
So once we call register,
we provide the name of our task
and then it will be created within our project.
Now, the task property is actually found
on the project object.
Typically we don't specify it, it's normally implicit,
but here I'm going to be really verbose
and put it in place so you can see how it works.
All right, now that we have our task,
let's go ahead and within the closure,
we're going to add some actions to it.
The first action we'll add is do first.
Inside of this action,
I'm going to go ahead and print out some console output.
Here, I'll just say hello LinkedIn learning.
Then I'm going to go ahead and copy this action
and then I'll just paste it right below the first one.
And our next action, we're going to name do last.
And within the output,
I'm just going to say hello learner.
Okay, there we go.
So let's go ahead.
We'll save the build.gradle file
and then we'll head over to the terminal
where we can use the Gradle wrapper
to execute the new task we just created.
There we can see the task is executed
and the output we specified
was printed to our terminal.
Okay, now that we have our new task,
let's return to Eclipse,
and I'm going to do one more thing
that's going to change up our task graph.
So inside of our build script,
I'm going to make the build task
depend on our new task.
So there I'll just say build.depends on simple task,
and that's going to change up our task graph.
Let me show you.
We'll go over to the terminal
and then we'll execute the TI tree task again.
And here you'll see that our new task
has been added to the task graph
and that's because the build task depends on it.
That means if we were to execute a build
using the Gradle wrapper,
it's going to include the execution of our new task,
and there we can see the output printed to the console
from the task we created.
Most often, we'll use tasks that come from plugins,
but understanding how the task graph is assembled
will be a big help when you're working with Gradle.